---
layout: post
title: Professional Self Assessment
date: 2020-12-12 13:32:20 +0300 # Y-M-D
description: You’ll find this post in your `_posts` directory. Go ahead and edit it and re-build the site to see your changes. # Add post description (optional)
img: software.jpg # Add image post (optional)
tags: [Productivity, Learn] # add tag
---

The coursework I have completed throughout the Computer Science program at Southern New Hampshire University has been a rewarding experience. When I had originally started this program, I did not feel confident in my abilities as an independent software developer. The projects I have completed over the past two years have given me the knowledge & confidence necessary to produce professional quality software products as both an independent software engineer & development team member. Developing these projects and the ePortfolio has helped me demonstrate my understanding of a variety of technical software engineering concepts. Completing these assignments has also given me a better understanding of the entire scope of the field of computer science. With this understanding I was able to identify the fields that I want to focus on as professional software engineer.

Completing courses such as the Collaboration & Team Project, Software Development Lifecycle, and Object-Oriented Analysis & Design courses has taught me how to design software effectively while working on a development team to design, document, and communicate project specifications to other team members and shareholders. For the Collaboration & Team Project course I worked on a remote team in which we all committed to a repository for a jukebox application on bitbucket. We were tasked with verifying each other codes and leaving comments. The Software Development Lifecycle gave me insight into all of the functions associated with working on an Agile development team. Throughout this class I had to fulfill tasks associated with each role, this gave me a complete understanding of the importance of each role. As the Product Owner I created the project charter to communicate the scope of the project to shareholders formally, as the SCRUM Master I created an agenda for my team, as a software tester I tested the product for defects using Java and Junit in Eclipse, as a development team member I implemented the required functionality detailed in the product requirements. The Object-Oriented Analysis & Design course taught me how to work together on a team of developers using object-oriented principles to create documentation and diagrams to model digital applications.

The courses that gave me a wide breadth of technical knowledge were courses such as Computer Graphics & Visualization, Secure Coding, Emerging Systems Architecture & Technologies, & Client/Server Development. For the Computer Graphics & Visualization course I was tasked with creating a simple 3D object using OpenGL and C++, and I had chosen to create a wooden stool. I had found this assignment challenging because I hadn’t taken my Linear Algebra course yet but I was able to figure out how to align all of the vertices properly to generate the 3D stool. For the Secure Coding course, I was tasked with auditing a program and creating an audit report. I did not find this task challenging but it gave me a deeper insight in identifying vulnerabilities and developing secure code. For the Emerging Systems Architecture & Technologies course I was tasked with creating a weather device that records temperature and humidity and outputs the data in real-time to a dashboard using a Raspberry Pi & GrovePi sensor. This project was challenging but I was able to create the device using Python. I retrieved the temperature & humidity data from the GrovePi sensor then formatted and output the data to file. I then created a server that sends the file to a client and displays the data in a JavaScript dashboard. This was one of the most interesting hands-on projects I had completed and it was a lot of fun to learn about and work with the Raspberry Pi. For the Client/Server Development course I was tasked with creating a RESTful stock market API that would serve stock market data from a MongoDB database. I created the RESTful API using Python and MongoDB which handled CRUD requests entered by the user and generated simple financial reports. I found this exercise to be fun because I have always been interested in how financial technologies are developed. 

The artifacts I have chosen fit together to inform my portfolio as a whole by providing a general overview of the skills, abilities, and techniques I have demonstrated through the projects I have completed while enrolled in the Computer Science program. The artifact I have chosen to demonstrate my skills in Software Design and Engineering showcases my ability to analyze the low-level implementation of a program in order to extract its original design. The artifact I have chosen to demonstrate my skills in Algorithms and Data Structures showcases my ability to contribute to a project that is already under development and implement the required functionality using the appropriate techniques. The artifact I have chosen to demonstrate my skills in Databases showcases my ability to develop RESTful web services that can be used to serve information from a database to remote applications or clients.
